>> Good morning, Ladies and Gentlemen.
And welcome to Session 600.
This is the fundamentals of digital video session.
And today, we're going to be joined
by three very special guests.
The first presenter is going to be Craig
Syverson from gruntmedia.
And the next two presenters are from Pixel Corps.
We have Ben Durbin and
Kenji Kato.
And these guys are going to give you a pretty good
overview of the entire video production process
from the very beginning all the way through, you know,
actually getting your video on the web and then all those,
you know, camera formats and everything you
need to understand about making great video
that looks, you know, even better when compressed.
So with that said, I'm going to hand it over to Craig.
>> Thank you very much.
>> Steven Tuttle, Ladies and Gentlemen, from Apple Computer.
>> He can't introduce himself,
so I'll introduce him for him.
Thanks a lot for coming.
We're going to do a survey of digital video.
Very kind of a big broad overview.
So we're not going to be really technical here.
This is not the technical session.
This is the 9:00 warm-up, oh my gosh,
we've got to start this whole video thing.
So I'm going to go through a presentation that I've made
that addresses people just getting started in podcasting,
wanting to get a sense of what does
it take to create a video podcast.
And I'm using my own video podcast as the model for that.
So that would be us.
And the show that I'm-- my company is gruntmedia.
And my first show that I've done is called videogrunt.
And this is a shot of my logo, which was up
on the QuickTime content guide last summer.
I don't mean to brag.
Okay, I'm going to brag.
I was the first independent podcaster
put on the content guide.
So thanks to the content guides for that.
That was really great.
My show is about the basics of digital video.
It's a digicational show.
I teach people, you know, what's an
aspect ratio, what's a frame rate.
It's not a how-to.
It's more of a what-is.
But moving on, the thing I'm going to talk about right
now is I want to give people a 30,000-foot overview
of what it takes to get a video podcast from 0 to 60.
But I'm only going to go three inches deep.
So we're just going to give you a big picture.
And that big picture is kind of broken up into these
four different groups of these twelve different points.
Starting in the green area, you know, it's getting the show
together, it's thinking of what the show is going to be
like all the way up to the top part about promo and
monetization, which none of us know anything about because
of all the millions of pico dollars
that I've been making off of podcasts.
It's going to happen soon.
So let me just start right ahead
here talking about the first section.
This green section is about really, you know, when you
want to start a show, it's really important, I think,
and I've found in preparing my shows, is
to really think about what you want to do.
Obviously you'll want to figure out what you want
to have done at the end, and what's the feeling?
That's kind of the main point of
this thing is what's the vibe?
You know, do you want to do a comedy, do you want to do
a round table discussion, do you want to do a news show?
And it's really important, I think, at the beginning
to kind of feel what it is you're trying to say.
And you'll want to get a sense of what people
are going to feel like when they see it.
If you can nail that at the beginning,
it will really help you down the line.
A lot of people start off with one idea
and they kind of, you know, go to comedy,
and then they realize they're not
funny, so it goes somewhere else.
And it can be a real mess.
And another thing to think about is
how it's going to be experienced.
This is where the whole podcasting and online media
is slightly different in that the actual conditions
by which your audience are viewing your media are different
than the old days, different than, and by the old days,
I mean those of us who have been in video production.
We're sort of used to having people watch our stuff on
screens in a reasonably controlled room or a projector.
And with online and podcasting, they're
in a totally different space now.
They're on the road, they have a lot more distractions.
So in thinking of the show, it's really important to really
think about that user experience down the line, right?
>> Indeed.
>> Just say yes, you're great.
>> Yes, you're great.
>> You're great.
>> Thank you.
And so next in this green section
then is think strategically.
And this is part of what I talked with for corporate
people is, you know, how does this podcast fit in overall
with your company strategy, realizing that this
media edition is sometimes just an element.
Don't try to make-- if it's part of a corporate thing, don't
try to make this show the entire conveyance of information.
Think of it as a supplement to a lot of other things.
And use media in its proper way, sort of in the
proper macluinistic way of, you know,
what can it accomplish best, what
can moving media accomplish best,
which is more about feeling and
experience more than part data.
And think about how to scale it.
This is a problem a lot of Web 2.0
companies have, of course, is how to scale.
But even for, you know, small individuals like me who
are starting off, you've got to be prepared for success.
You've got to really understand that if it does take off,
you've got to be able to grow your bandwidth, you've got to,
perhaps, grow your production line or your
production flow, enhance your website.
What's that?
>> Enhancing your website, things like that.
>> So one observation I've made in looking at just
symbolically representing radio or audio on the top
and video on the bottom or traditional media, just in
being involved in the podcasting world for the past couple
of years, just the observations that I've made.
And I also am involved in audio podcast as well.
I do a weekly show with Kenji and
two others called This Week in Media.
And I do a fort nightly show on
venture capital called Venture Cast.
So I have my hand in both audio and video production.
And things I've observed with online media and podcasting,
in particular with audio, is that compared to radio
and other traditional sort of audio media
formats, with podcasting, we can go longer.
We don't have these time constraints, we don't
have these commercial marks that we have to hit.
And do you know, people download stuff, they tend
to be more, you know, focused and specialized,
so they're willing to deal with our hour
and a half, two hour jawing on of things.
And I actually love listening to it.
I actually like things to be longer.
Especially for me in listening to
audio podcast in the car with my iPod,
I don't want to be switching programs a lot while driving.
So I like these one-hour programs.
I just hit the button once and go.
And the other thing about the audio, at least in
podcasting in general, is culturally, it's more candid,
it's more casual, certainly in a corporate setting with the
corporate podcast, you tend to get a more humanistic vibe
out of the CEO rather than just the straight-up,
you know, we're doing great kind of comments.
On video, what I've noticed is
that for online, it's shorter.
There's a lot of good reasons for it to be shorter.
You know, bandwidth and all that notwithstanding.
Bandwidth and that will be a problem
that will go away very soon.
So it's not really-- that's really not the reason.
The reason is that, again, this context of viewing,
shorter attention spans, and it's really, I think,
given rebirth to this idea of the short-form video.
It's the last time-- the only time we've really had
that historically has been on cartoons, things that are,
you know, contained programs that are five minutes or so.
But I'm finding that with video, there's a really great
spot for short length programs in the non fiction space.
It's really great because it's really easy to do that.
And I'm finding that as a barrier, not as a barrier, but
as an entry point, non fiction for me is a lot easier.
Now, I think those people who are doing fiction,
who are doing comedy, they're very brave.
I think they're awesome like Ask a Ninja
and those guys because they're really talented.
So you have to kind of, again, this goes back to, you
know, what's your vibe, what are you trying to accomplish?
And really think about how you can optimize your
talents with what you've got available to you.
And video programs are simpler.
We've got smaller screens.
The whole composition aspect of
designing a screen for a video podcast
versus a presentation is a big, big different for me.
It's a completely different way of looking at it.
So I'm finding that these-- the
whole layout and the whole way
that you're presenting information
can be a lot simpler, right?
>> Indeed.
>> Yeah. Format.
Basically, this is just, once you're designing your
show, you're thinking about what you want to do.
Then build your format.
And the format is sort of the professional edge.
You know, it's the professional touch, it's the consistency.
And, you know, can you have your
format tie in with your concept?
It's a subtle point, but it really somehow--
sometimes the way that your program flows actually
enhances the concept that you're trying to give off.
And it really helps you tighten up your script
writing or tighten up the concept of your show,
if you give it constraints because
constraints give you a lot of power.
And so this is just a very quick sort of survey
of the shows that I've done in the grunt series.
I took the average length of a show and sort of figured
out how much time I was devoting to each section.
So I just did this little graph for someone
who's helping me with script writing.
And I was saying, you know, the sections of
the show, this is roughly how long they are.
And this whole circle represents about five minutes.
And starting at the top, I have a-- in that orange section
in the top, I have a fake commercial on videogrunt.
It's a satirical non-commercial-- I won't go into that.
Then I have an intro bit, and then I'm on
camera for a little bit introducing the subject.
Then that blue section down there, I do a lot of motion
graphics or I'm, you know, into the meat of the subject.
I come back on camera with an exception
or as a reminder that I'm there.
Again, more motion graphics.
I come back at a close, closing tag, and we're out.
And so that's kind of the format.
To me, this was the culmination of really the six or seven
months I took in just thinking about this green section.
It really took me the most time to get that ready.
So now we're moving up into production.
And this is sort of the, you know, this
is the heart of where we come in here
with Apple and actually making the podcast.
Kenji and Ben are going to go into
a little more detail on the guts.
So I'm going to go through this rather quickly.
But for me, for the kind of show that I do, my
most important thing is having a good writer.
That it's all about the script, in my case.
Now, obviously certain shows aren't scripted.
But in mine, it is.
So that's my most important asset, is
to have a good writer and a good host.
It happens to be me, but that's just
because they can't find anyone else.
And you really have to pay attention
to copyrights and permissions.
It's a whole other, you know, week-long session about that.
And this notion that people are
beginning don't really understand.
And that is that pictures are easy and sound is hard.
And, you know, video cameras are really sexy and
they're really, you know, new technology about imaging,
but really the hard part is the sound because if you're not
really paying attention to sound, you get these crappy mics
on these cameras, so my whole emphasis for people
who are getting started is buy the camera last.
Worry about your script, worry about your sound,
buy your mics and practice on the sound first.
Then go with the video part.
So very, very quickly, one way that I'm, you know,
suggesting people go is to start
with at least HDV for cameras.
There's no reason to not do HDV or
high definition if you're starting out.
It's very important, I think, that you do, that, you know,
people are always saying, well
it's always so small at the end.
But those of us involved, you know,
you always want it as high as possible.
And then at the last minute, you can
cramp it down to whatever size you need.
And these guys are going to go into a little
bit more about video formats and the like.
For audio gear, I think it's super
important to have a lavaliere mic.
These are two that I've used in the past.
I currently use the Sennheiser.
These are under $1,000.
Don't spend less than $500 on a
wireless mic because it just won't work.
Or it will work for a week, and then it won't work at all.
And it's just really, really critical.
You could spend up to 10 grand for wireless
stuff, but you can start here around $5,000.
And then I suggest if you actually do want to
go further, these are, I call them Kung Fu mics,
but the countryman doesn't call them that.
But this is a great microphone company, that the lavaliere,
this little B6, the diameter of that mic is smaller
than the diameter of the wire of my current wireless.
I mean, incredibly small, incredibly
well made, and they sound great.
And so obviously the smallness means
that they're hidden on the video camera.
And that's a good thing.
Other mic types to use, there's
a shotgun mic, this guy here.
This is a Heil PR40.
This is more for voice podcasting.
This is a handheld mic, which is good for field work.
And I put this one up here, the camera mounted mic,
only because if you have to do a camera mounted mic,
which is like the last thing you
want to do, but if you do it,
Rode makes a pretty nice one, from what I hear.
I don't use it, but it's got a shock mat, which
is this guy here, which absorbs some of the s ound.
And they really thought about, if you
have to have a camera mounted mic,
How it would be a pretty
good one for a reasonable price.
I think they're like 150 bucks or something.
Guys, do you know?
>> Sounds about right.
>> Yeah, so, you know, if you can help it,
don't use the camera mounted mic, is my point.
Okay, so the mic production process, our
most important tool is a word processor.
Like going back to the whole writing thing.
And so, you know, I write the script, and what I'll do
is I'll actually record what I feel is the first draft,
I'll actually record into my digital
recorder so I can hear it.
It's all about the auditory things.
It's not about, you know, looking and
hearing are two totally different things.
Lots of rewrites with that.
Lots of changes and, you know, weird onomatopoeias or
things like that you don't notice when you're writing.
I'll flow them to soundtrack and actually maybe even
do some sound editing to help me edit the script.
And so that creates the cycle of, you
know, until I get the thing that I want,
which is the script, that's sort of the key.
And using the script, and I will record myself using a
little HDV camera by Sony, and like I've been talking about,
I don't use the onboard mic, I use a shotgun mic.
And then I tie that, in the old
days, when I first did the podcast,
I tied it straight into my iMac
G5 and recorded straight to there.
And the whole first series of videogrunt was done with
an iMac G5, which I think is a huge testament, again,
to Apple that I could produce a high definition
podcast with a quote consumer computer.
And it was truly amazing that I did that.
It worked really, really well.
Step footage goes into Final Cut, and there I've
captured my on-camera stuff and I've captured the voice.
I've basically captured a script into Final Cut.
So now I've recorded.
Let's go on to post production.
What you need is a good editor.
And I don't mean the actual software, I mean the person,
someone who understands cadence, understands timing, and,
you know, it's that whole je ne sais quoi
of how you hook up things together.
We've got to do sound sweetening
because, again, harping on sound.
Your motion graphics, thinking of the
screen, thinking of the small composition.
And then the part that is really not sexy, but it's about
workflow and backup, and that's the part I usually talk
about because no one else likes to talk about that.
A little bit on the workflow, so if I consider
my scripts get translated in the Final Cut,
then in terms of the pictures, everything I do
goes into motion and comes back in Final Cut.
So Final Cut is my entry point and my assembly point.
I actually don't do a whole lot of cutting
or special effects or anything in Final Cut.
It's all pretty done in motion.
So a very quick example of this is my on-camera
stuff, the shot for a Final Cut, throw it in motion,
and then I do that in motion too, make the black
and white, add the tag, move me a little bit.
And then that will go right back
into Final Cut onto the timeline.
And then for other elements of the show, be they from
older versions of Photoshop Illustrator, or I show you,
which is that blue icon there for the screen capture.
Everything that I get goes into motion.
And in motion, I set the right screen size and do all
I want to do and then send those back to Final Cut.
So this is my Final Cut timeline.
Here's a close-up.
Again, everything is driven by the script and the
sound, then the voice recording is the script.
So, you know, that is my timing, that's my metronome,
that's where all the important cuts are based on.
And so on this particular timeline, how I do it is
on these lower rows, that's all the stuff that moves.
This is all the things that move that are from motion.
And then the parts that don't move I
can create still-frames in Final Cut.
So I'm only doing the rendering of
the parts that are actually moving.
And then Final Cut does a great job with still frames.
So then I can just drag those along
to meet the timing of the voiceover.
So that's how I can kind of get a
pretty efficient workflow out of this.
So then when we're done with the pictures, then
we go into sound and do a little sound sweetening.
This is a quick little illustration using the early
version of soundtrack of my voice as recorded.
And then I have one that's just slightly modified.
If the sound is working, we'll hear it right now.
>> This is program five, videogrunt.
I'm Craig Syverson.
Okay, we've all seen what happens to a wide screen film
when it gets modified for television using pan and scan.
And as many of you, the days of pan and
scan-- this is program five of Video Grunt.
I'm Craig Severson.
Okay, we've all seen what happens to a wide screen film
when it gets modified for television using pan and scan.
And as many of you, the days of pan and scan--
>> So the differences there are pretty subtle,
pretty subtle, pretty minor, but important.
I use, you know, sound compression to sort of bring the
presence up, some noise reduction for the noise in the room,
very simple sound sweetening, but that's just that little
bit really helps the whole understanding of the show.
Then this is kind of the workflow idea.
And if this green box sort of represents the amount of data
that I'm creating in production, arbitrary walk of data,
be it from tape or, you know, from hard drive recording,
when I get into post production,
that amount of data really gets big.
And then when I'm actually getting down
to my final edit, the amount of that data
that that final edit is, it representatively is smaller.
And then, you know, my actual final output,
of course, is a very, very small little file.
But the point that I'm making here is that for
people getting started, especially beginners,
really understand that your storage
needs are going to go through the roof.
And it really gets big, it really swells really fast.
So be prepared with, you know, hard drives.
Buy a lot of them.
Be prepared.
And then the other thing, of course, is that you might have
a lot of hard drives, but you've got to back everything
up because, you know, this time machine
is telling us, but as I've always said,
you know, one copy of data is just charming.
But it's not-- to me, I don't have data
unless I have at least two copies because if,
you know, we all know it can go away in a flash.
So in production, be really prepared to
get really smart about large scale storage.
You guys deal with a lot of storage, lots.
Yeah, you guys-- this is like amateur
hour compared to what you guys are up to.
Moving onto the whole file compression thing,
the best I can say is that it's a dark art,
that it's something that really requires practice.
I can't give you a formula.
Every show is different.
And it's just hard, it's just hard.
And the thing with video is that there's
different flavors as well out there on the web.
You can go with Flash or Windows
Media Player, sorry, or QuickTime.
But you kind of have to make a decision,
I feel, I'm telling people, you know,
you either offer everything one is kind of my approach.
It's like you can go down that path.
And I thought well, I'm doing a show about
digital video, I should offer them all.
And then I realize that's crazy.
I'm just going to do H264 because it's the best.
And even if you find settings that work for one
show, it doesn't mean your next episode of a show
or program is going to work with those same settings.
To optimize your video, indeed.
So, again, here's this idea of all this data.
In my particular flow, I shot everything HDV.
I keep it HDV all the way to the end.
This is going to probably change.
I'm working now with Final Cut 6 and strongly considering
that I'm going to convert everything to Progress 422,
even though in my particular case,
that will mean a larger amount of data.
But there's so many advantages to having this
central point of the central hub of a standard
and Progress 422 really looks "promising that it can be that.
But the point I'm making here is keep the
resolution high all the way to the end.
And then, you know, what I have is the
final output file off of the timeline.
You know, I export out of QuickTime
movie of that complete program.
So that's the stem cell of this program.
That's the thing that's going to, from there,
then I will throw it into a compression software
from which I can create these other formats.
Of course I have no interest in the
other two, so, you know, for me,
it's all about how do I make a really good H264 out of it?
And used Compressor to do that.
And in the old days, like before
Compressor 3, 2, before the new Compressor,
they didn't have really good presets
or settings for the iPod, oddly enough.
So I actually used this little piece
of shareware, great piece of shareware
with a somewhat unfortunate name called Viddyup.
But it's awesome.
This plasma software makes it $10.
And it does really, really great encoding.
It has custom settings where you can go in
and monkey with it as well as having presets.
You can do batch processing, which I discovered
completely by accident that it could do that.
And for a lot of people, too, it didn't require
QuickTime Pro to do a lot of QuickTime Pro like things.
So I recommended this a lot.
I do recommend this a lot, especially to, you know, start-up
podcasters who might not have Compressor, but I've always,
always pushed them to get the Final Cut Suite.
And then these are the particular
settings, which you can't see.
It doesn't matter because they're not right.
These are the settings from my
show, but it won't work for you.
In my particular show, the way I've shot it, the way I've--
the elements that I have are very efficient for online.
I go on black and white, but that's not really the point.
The point is that I'm not on camera much.
I use a lot of motion graphics.
And motion graphics, by definition, are very efficient
in being compressed because they're very predictable
and they don't, you know, it's not like a tree with moving
leaves where you have to recalculate all those frames.
So I could do a really low data rate.
And my files are really small.
And they look really good.
But that's because I planned it that way from the beginning.
So, again, it's the dark art.
So now we've done our show, we've
compressed it, we have this great file.
Now we want to get it out in the world.
What's the next step?
This is the hard part of the blue
part of getting your feed ready.
And then this section identity is basically
just a rant on my part about naming.
But it's really important.
And I don't know if Pete Alcorn is here.
He's the iTunes directory.
He rants about this too, which makes me feel good, in
that you have all this opportunity with all this metadata
with the file itself, the ID 3 tags, the information
in your RSSV itself to really optimize the O
in the SCO, having people find your show.
And so-- and to me, it's just asthetically better to be
consistent in your naming because if these things show
up in a list over time, so you really have to consider that,
sorry, I clicked on that accidentally, each show has its--
each file has its own name, each RSS feed
might actually change the name of the show.
You know, be consistent with the spacing.
I mean, I don't have to tell a lot of you this,
but this is, again, this is my personal rant.
Just be aware that, you know, we all know
how things get alphabetized in computers.
And just, you know, be consistent.
And I rant about this, and then just last
week, I misspelled David's name on a show.
So there you go.
What can you do?
I'm not going to go through the entire section.
I'm going to go up to feed.
Basically, this is, after you've got your thing
ready, how do you get your RSS feed out there?
And you have to build the feed file and find a
good host, maintain the integrity of the feed
and perhaps add some extra information to the feed.
And I use a really great little program called
Podcast Maker, $30, it does a very wonderful job
of creating the whole RSS feed for my show.
And these are sort of the two screens
that I did just to set it up.
And then the rubber hits the road when I
actually go up and post the file to my server.
So in this diagram, this is me,
and I've just created a show.
That's the QuickTime movie.
And I used Podcast Maker.
What I do is I send that up to my host, which is Cache Fly.
Cache Fly is a content delivery
network that's very, very fast.
And Podcast Maker creates the RSS feed
itself and the media file sits on Cache Fly.
The next thing I do, or I did it initially,
was get an account with the FeedBurner.
And I told FeedBurner point to this RSS file at Cache Fly.
And why? Because what that does is this
gives me this really nice address of,
you know, where people can find an RSS feed.
And I'll talk a little bit about
why I like that in a second.
The next thing I did is I contacted the iTunes directory,
and I said here's my new show, it's at FeedBurner.
So, you know, go there to get my feed.
Then the audience eventually hears about my show, they
go to the podcast directory, which then bounces them
to FeedBurner, bounces them to Cache Fly.
Cache Fly then sends my audience the file directly.
So that's the whole feedback loop of the RSS
feed in kind of diagramatic form.
After this initial subscription, my audience now has a
direct relationship with FeedBurner, as you probably know.
The iTunes directory is out of the loop.
They're just there to set up the initial thing.
They don't continue that monitoring of the flow, you
know, the programs don't ever go through Apple itself.
They just pointed my audience to my feed.
The reason I like FeedBurner is that for whatever reason,
but I can't imagine, but if I would ever leave Cache Fly
and change to another service, this means my feed changes.
And feeds are very, very fussy little irritating things.
They get really upset if things change.
And so you could blow a feed.
You can have a feed break or weird things happen.
And it happens all the time.
And then you've got everybody redownloading
all of your shows again or weird things happen.
It's really easy to make things go wrong on an RSS feed.
So what I like about it is that if I-- should I ever
change where I'm actually hosting my files themselves,
as long as I tell FeedBurner that I'm at a
new place, my audience both new and existing,
are still pointing to the FeedBurner
address, which stays consistent.
So I have a less likely chance
of things going south from there.
I think I'll-- that's kind of the main part.
And then we'll go on to your bits.
>> Sounds great.
>> We're going to take questions at the end.
We're kind of blowing through this now.
In fact, I need to blow through
this now to get to your slides.
Basically, I build my website in iWeb, goes
up on Media Temple, and then people get--
the website, the webpage is from Media Temple.
I get the actual media file from my webpage from Cache Fly.
It's the same piece of data.
Do you guys want to enter this while I flip
through, what you're going to talk about?
>> Yeah.
>> My name is Ben Durbin.
I work with Kenji at the Pixel Corp. And the Pixel
Corp is a guild for people doing media development
and post production work, whether that
be visual effects or video podcasting.
We're doing research and training
in a bunch of different areas.
And one of the things that we do is podcasts.
Mac Break is one of our podcasts.
We have a couple at N stable, some audio
podcasts that were mentioned this week in media,
Mac Break Weekly and some others along those lines.
>> Our new N Mac Break Tech that we're on.
>> Right, Mac Break Tech.
So one of the things that we're going to talk about is
just build on Craig's presentation and talk a little bit
about the things you'll need to consider
once you're going to scale a given project.
A lot of projects do start out single
person, sort of a one-man band sort of thing.
And there's all sorts of considerations
you'll need to keep in mind when you start
to grow that to something larger than that.
And so welcome this morning to Session
600 on file naming and organization.
I'm going to follow up on Craig's rant.
It's something that bears repeating.
As developers, you're probably already sort of in this
sort of structured mindset with how you organize your files
and how your naming conventions are taken care of.
But especially when you start to work with media folks who
maybe aren't thinking in that way, and just in general,
when you're trying to scale a project where you
have multiple people coming in to work on it,
you're going to need to keep these things in mind.
So one way or one way to sell a naming conventions and
file organization for people who may be somewhat resistant
to it is it's sort of the precursor for growth.
It becomes very hard to scale beyond just a few people.
And I would argue that six months from now, you might
forget exactly what you were doing naming something,
whatever you were naming six months ago.
>> That's never happened to me.
>> Right. Take advantage of the fact that-- or bear in
mind that your memory is bad and it's going to get worse.
So taking care of these things early
is going to save you in the long run.
Now, what some people end up doing or one
of the things that I've found is something
that people punt is I can't organize this stuff until
I've got a clear idea of what everything is going to be,
what all the assets are and what everything is--
where everything is going to live
in this space at the given project.
And what I would argue is that even if your
names are somewhat arbitrary to begin with,
as long as they're consistent as developers,
you know that you can easily transform
that to whatever scheme you end
up with using in the long term.
So as long as you're encouraging the users
to come up with something that is readable,
I would argue against short codes and numeric-based systems.
You can use those as you get to a larger system or if you've
got a metadata system that is sort of reading those codes
on behalf of the user and just presenting
them with user friendly information,
but start out with something that's
just readable and consistent.
Use full words.
Use a consistent delimiter to take
care of fields in your file names.
And know that file names are a sort
of medium quality solution at best.
They provide you a single view.
You're sort of baking in an idea of what the fields are
going to be and what their hierarchical relationship is
and which view you want of that hierarchy at a given point.
But know that that's going to fail you at some
point and know that you're probably going to need
to move to some sort of metadata solution.
>> And consistency is the big thing now.
>> Consistency is a big thing.
>> Make sure you stay consistent.
>> Exactly.
So as you move on to something a little more
robust, you can move to metadata formats
that are either text description files, they could
be XML data that's read by some sort of user system.
It could be something as simple
as structured spotlight comments.
But you will definitely find at some
point you're going to need to move
on to something that is beyond just the file name.
So a general trend, just start simple, readable,
consistent, knowing that you can transform that later
and you can enhance that by adding metadata
through some sort of metadata system.
So one other thing that you'll run into, and this is
actually a boon to those of us who are trying to scale this
to more of a couple folks working on
it or working in distributive fashion.
We have folks working on our podcast
that are all over the world.
And one of the things that we're starting to
work on now is leveraging the XML file formats,
both in motion and Final Cut, to start some automation.
Now, the last slide was really just a way of getting
everyone on board with the file name because that's one
of the things that enables this
sort of automation down the road.
We do a lot of blue code in python.
It's one of our preferred languages.
And the nice thing about Final Cut
Is that you are able to do programatic
transformations to file.
There's an actual specification,
an XML specification for Final Cut.
And the way this works is that you're
able to export an XML file from Final Cut.
The new version has even added an enhancement where instead
of having the user have to manually export the XML file,
you can set an option where the XML
file gets baked out at every save.
So when you're ready to go in with your
scripts and make transformations to the file,
you can do that without having user interaction there.
A couple of things that you can do
with that, you can validate projects.
So if there aren't any conventions or structures within the
file itself with the way that you're organizing your bins,
the way footage should be named, even the way lengths
of different section, time between lower thirds,
if it's a lower third heavy or an information heavy podcast.
You can validate those things programatically
rather than having someone have
to open up the file and sort of do a manual.
Oh, you can do this right here.
You can do this right here.
That can push change requests back to the editor.
You can change the project state.
We do a lot of offlining for our podcasts,
especially some of these commercial ones
that we're starting to work on Cocktails on the Fly.
>> And the reason offlining is a big
thing is that it's just too heavy,
even with fast bin to move large data sets
around, especially when you're working with HD.
So we do a lot of offlining and sending out edits and
so forth because a lot of our editors are not here
in the bay area, where we're actually based.
So we're sending out edits all around the world
and basically having editors work on
low res versions and sending it back.
And being able to manage that workflow
can be tricky sometimes.
But as you maintain some good practices, it helps.
>> Right. So changing the project state, you get an
edit back, an offline edit that someone has done,
and you need to reconnect that to all of the
large format media so you can do your final render
and start the compression process locally.
And you can do those sorts of transformations,
changing sequence settings, reconnecting to media,
you can do that programatically using the XML interface.
And then assembly of per episode content.
And we're not doing this quite as
much as we used to with Mac Rate,
but in the beginning we were doing a fairly lower
third heavy sort of format, where we would add a bunch
of information beyond just introducing the guests, we would
add a bunch of information and click the links to podcast.
And that was done in a distributive fashion as well,
where you would have people reviewing the edit,
and they were sort of tooling around looking
for good pages to link to or good data
to enhance what was being discussed in the podcast.
And then they were making time code notes, so we would
have a fairly simple database where you have a bunch
of lower thirds with what the title is going to be,
what the URL is going to be, or on the display URL,
and then actually where all the people would click on.
You can add that programatically using XML as well so you
could have a track where lower thirds that were being baked
out of motion or being added to
the timeline at the time stamps
that were designated by the folks who were creating them.
So another third party that's working remotely on
this, and then that data flows back into your project.
And in general, these examples just show how
you can start to work in a distributive fashion,
which is becoming increasingly important.
Not everyone is local to your project.
And this is one of the technologies that enables that.
Do you have any data on this photo?
So what we're going to do for the rest of the
presentation is talk about some workflow considerations
and technical considerations that you'll run into.
This being an intro, we're going to sort
of just tell you about all of the issues.
These are categories of things that you will run into when
you start to work with video, whether you're a consumer
of someone else's video or you're creating it yourself.
And then this is sort of going to build for
you a foundation that you can take with you
to the other more detailed sessions that
dive into all of these topics in depth.
>> And this is truly just a primer
we're going to go through.
We're going to go through this fast.
Just because we want to get to
questions you guys might have.
But there's a lot of stuff up here.
We could spend days on all the information up here.
And we have.
We had a conference not too long ago
called the Gear Media Tech Conference
where we spent basically three
days doing nothing but what you see
up here pretty much and talking about podcast production.
So there's a lot of stuff involved here.
And we're going to really just
glance over this really quick.
>> So moving on, the things that we're going to talk
about, we're talking about the acquisition formats,
what's coming out of the cameras, what you should expect to
be handed to you at some time for inclusion in a project.
Frame rates, what are the common frame
rates that you'll end up dealing with.
Dealing with pulldown where 24P material, 24
frames per second material, is imbedded in a stream
that is not 24 frames a second
and having to get that data out.
We'll talk about that.
Resolutions, some common resolutions that
you'll deal with, and the aspect ratios.
And then the peculiar monster pixel aspect ratio,
which is one of the things you'll also run into.
A little discussion on color space, the different
color spaces and how video space deals, or excuse me,
is differentiated from the traditional RGB
color space that many of us are used to.
And then a little bit about codecs.
Codecs you'll expect to be using or finding
useful when you go to compress your content,
whether that be intermediate stuff like we were
talking about for the offline edits or final renders.
And then delivery formats, the sort of packages, the
containers like QuickTime that you'll expect to run into.
>> And a real quick word on this.
If you don't think this stuff is important or you think,
oh, well, I'm just worried about the final delivery format,
things like that, even if you're only in a small portion of
this, you have to worry about all of these steps in essence
that as a maybe a web developer, if I'm putting my webpage
up and the video looks crappy, why does it look crappy
up there when it looked great at the acquisition?
And some of these things come into play.
So if you understand the basis of where all of
this is coming together, how it fits together,
you can understand why your video that you're
putting up on the web might look totally bad compared
to the original source of material that you've
acquired early on using maybe a really high-end camera.
>> Because every one of these things affects the end.
>> Yeah.
>> Every one of them.
>> So let's talk a little bit about acquisition.
Kenji, do you want to talk a little bit?
>> Yeah. So up here, basically, is just a
quick rundown of different acquisition formats.
So you have DV NTSC, you've got DV
PAL, you've got DV 2 offline RT.
This is just a sampling of some of the
ones you're going to find inside Final Cut.
It's a small sampling, but these are some of the ones
that you're going to encounter more often than others.
And what we mean by acquisition formats is what
is the camera acquiring in the first place?
Is it a DV camera, standard, you know, I go down over to
the Sony store, for example, and buy a standard DV camera.
Or is it an HD camera?
Well, if it's an HD camera, what
format is it recording into?
For example, HD has several formats.
There's DVC Pro HD, there's HDV, there's these
different codecs that you have to worry about.
Up until just recently, if you were just doing DV video,
standard 720 by 480 or 640 by 480, depending on how you want
to look at it, video, you pretty much had to worry
about one format, and that was DV, either NTC or
PAL, whether it was European or
North American standard, basically.
Beyond that, you were basically dealing in the pro realm.
Now that's changed, especially
with the consumer level HD cameras.
And even if you get it in HDV format,
HDV is not a true format in the sense
that everyone plays the same game with that format.
Every camera manufacturer has implemented HDV differently.
So you can't just apply one rule
set to HDV for every camera format.
So this is where it starts getting really tricky.
Now, one of the advantages to the new version
of Final Cut that just came out is it starts
to handle these formats a lot easier
than the old versions did.
In fact, any other application did.
Up until just recently, it's been a major headache.
I literally would spend a week at a time, if we had
three cameras on the shoot, conforming the formats,
the right formats, getting the footage into a
standard format that I could use for editing purposes.
>> About HDV is that we came across on a shoot that I did
is I brought my Sony camera one day for a shoot, and I left,
and then they took my tape and
they couldn't play it back on the--
>> Yeah, a different camera.
>> HDV same quote format.
But it's--
>> Yeah, it gets interesting.
So beyond the acquisition formats, you
want to move on into basically frame rates.
Now, what I mean by frame rates is how you're recording it.
Most of you are probably familiar
with the frame rates that are up here.
But, again, there can be some differences here.
And some of you might not understand
the differences between progressive
and interlaced and the way systems are capturing it.
I'm here to tell you right now that unless you're using
a very special camera, everything you're capturing
on any consumer level or even pro consumer
level camera is actually interlaced footage,
even if it says it's progressive scan, you have to play some
tricks to get it to an actual true progressive frame format.
So even though we say 23.98p up there
or we say 24p, these are probably going
to be interlaced formats inside
the camera as you're acquiring it.
And basically it's just a series of different
frame rates you're going to see out there.
A lot of video professionals are really
excited about 24p because of different reasons.
One of the biggest reasons for delivery is that actually
the nice thing is that it makes a smaller file in the end.
So it might be a little more headache up front to
deal with 24p or 24p acquisition, but in the end,
you have a smaller data file and it actually
works very nicely in Apple PD in a way.
24p footage is going to work a lot better
because you can get more data into the Apple TV
than a true 30p or a 60i program basically.
>> One other reason you'll find folks excited about the
24p is that they're doing narrative or dramatic content.
Getting the film look has been one of those holy
grails that everyone has wanted for a video,
and there are various tricks and
successes and failures along those lines.
But getting that 24 frame look, the kinetic look
of it anyway, is something that people are after.
And you'll notice that even some of the pro consumer cameras
I guess you'd call it, the new Canon HV20 that just came
out is actually using a progressive CMOS chip.
And it will do a 24 frame mode$.
Now, like Kenji said, what's coming out of your
camera, since it's HDV, is still an interlaced--
it's an interlaced format, 60 frames a second,
and we'll get to this in just a second,
but there's a method by which you
extract that 24 frame materi$al.
But you can get, even now you're starting to get
progressive material from some of the lower end cameras.
Until recently, it's been the domain of higher end, the
Sony CineAltas and these more money than we have cameras.
>> So pull bend, which Ben was just alluding to.
So getting from 30 to 24.
Now, even if the camera says it's
acquiring at 24p or some wei$rd 24, it's not.
Again, it's requiring in something else.
So this is just a quick rundown, a
little geek bit talking about this.
And the reason I want to bring this up is that a lot of
these new cameras that people are shooting with, HV20,
which is probably one of the most popular new entry level
HD cameras, it's a Canon camera, it's a great camera.
You can actually hook up.
There's adapter kits to hook 35 millimeter lenses to it.
You can get all these great attachments for it.
>> On HV20?
That's cool.
>> But the problem is going from
the 24p into the final mode.
So I want to walk through this.
And it's basically-- it has changed a little bit because
the new version of Final Cut it handles is better.
But 24p source, and I just want to walk you through this
real quick, if we look at it as a series of frames, A, B,
C and D, that information gets
recorded actually in the 60i.
So that actually gets recorded into field information here.
And this is how it actually gets broken up in a standard
what's called 23 pull bend when you break that up.
So you actually have the A frame getting
interlaced, in essence, twice together.
The B frame gets interlaced twice together as a whole frame.
Then it gets combined with the B and C frame.
The C frame gets a whole frame.
And then the D frame gets interlaced
again on the disk, interlaced again.
So when you reverse that, you're, again, pulling frames out.
And this is what the reverse telecine
or pull-down of that means.
Is it you're recombining frames to get a 24p source out?
So the top is the original 24 frame acquisition.
The intermediate is how it gets recorded to tape
and then how it gets pulled back down into the 24p.
$
Now, a lot of you are probably familiar
with the DVX if you've done any video.
It was really popular.
It was the first consumer level
digital video camera that did 24p.
$
It used a different pattern, which
is called the 2332 pull down.
And I'm just going to run through this really
quick just so we can get to some questions.
But this is basically, again, how
that gets broken apart back into 24p.
So you can start to see this is getting kind of complex.
You're like A B B B C. This is stuff
that really you don't have to worry
about as much anymore because the new version of Final Cut.
There's some things that are taken
care of for you a little bit more
that in the past you had to run through all these hoops.
So it's a little easier.
>> What happens to those Bs and Cs?
>> They just get left out.
All to make it compatible with the current video technology
so that video engineers didn't have to reengineer all
of their equipment and change the
standards and things like that.
Now, the Sony V1U is an interesting example.
It's a higher end camera.
It's prosumer.
It's about $4,500.
Actually, you can get it probably for less than that now.
It's a great camera.
It has one of the best looks we've found
on a consumer level camera hands down.
It's got some great features in it.
But again, it works a little differently.
When we first started using it doing editing, we
were getting all these weird patterns and no one
on the internet could figure out how to use it.
You shot in 24p, but no one knew how
to get it out into a delivery format.
And it takes some tricks.
When you look at it as a pure QuickTime movie, so
if I went into Final Cut and I was to capture it,
this is actually how it would look as a QuickTime
movie is you would see three whole frames.
And actually, it's not quite-- you would
see three whole frames, I should say.
And you would see two interlaced
frames in the way it gets broken up.
And you have to play some tricks
going through and cutting it up.
Now, the new version of Final Cut, actually,
I haven't had a chance to test it yet,
but supposedly it fully supports the V1U
now so you don't have to worry about this
if you're using the new version of Final Cut.
But if you have someone who captured
footage using a V1U before the new version
of Final Cut, this doesn't quite work.
You'll get these weird frame rates, you'll
get these weird interlacing problems.
Just be aware that a lot of these new
HD cameras, you'll see these problems.
Okay?
So resolution.
Really quick, there are different
resolutions most of you are probably with.
640 by 480 and 720 by 480.
The 720 by 480 is really what most people,
what most digital cameras are acquiring.
Your television set is 640 by 480.
And actually, it's not even that.
It's actually half that when you really get into how it
all works and how it signals coming down your TV set.
That's the great thing about things like
Apple TV and new digital TV formats.
They're using these true HD formats.
Apple TV is using the 1280 by 720 format.
And then on the high end, you have 1920 by 1080.
So when you hear 1080i or 1080p,
it's actually a 1920 by 1080  image.
Now, the i or the p is the big thing,
whether it's interlaced or progressive.
So if you're looking at a nice high end display,
you want to get the best picture quality.
You want the best overall delivery.
You want a 1080p screen.
But those are still relatively expensive.
And really, most people are going
to be looking at the 720p format.
In fact, most of you who get HD cable or get HD over
satellite, you're actually only getting 720p usually.
There are very few people actually doing 1080i.
And there's no one really doing 1080p broadcast right now.
>> It's worth mentioning that even if your output resolution
right now is not one of those higher end HD formats,
the demand for that, of course, is growing.
So be thinking in terms of future proofing your content
by rendering out to the full HD spec, if you can,
if you're capturing at a resolution
that will hold up to that.
And knowing that six months down the line, a year down the
line, you'll probably be starting to put that content down.
Mac Break is a good example.
We put out a full 1920 by 1080 version of the podcast.
And folks with larger monitor and a CPU to
handle the H264 at that resolution love it.
>> And that's a good point.
We master all of our footage now at full 1080 quality.
So this frame actually gives you an idea.
The full image here is that full 1920 by 1080 pixels.
The blue outline box is at 1280 by 720.
That would be a 720p image.
The yellow box is showing you what standard
DV cameras would acquire, a 720 by 480 image.
And then the smaller one is the good old standard
NTSC 640 by 480 image there, to give you an idea.
And most of you have seen pictures like this.
But the thing is that even if we're delivering
down to a 320 by 240 small web image,
we're still mastering in this full image
quality to maintain the maximum resolution.
One of the things that happens when you
take large images and you scale them
down is you get that nice image quality still.
You have more data to work with there.
It might take longer to process your footage
or it might take longer to crunch through it,
but your end result is going to be much better
than if you start out with an image that's 640
by 480 and you're going down to 320 by 240.
So whenever possible, you want to get your
footage in a maximum quality possible.
So pixel aspect ratio is really quick.
Square versus non square.
This is really a difference between
acquisition and final delivery.
Most people are not going to worry about this on
their computer because you're just aware of pixels.
So one-to-one ratio.
And if that image would represent the square pixel ratio.
Then you get all these non square ratios.
So you get DV, which is a .9.
You get DV, which is a .9 aspect ratio.
So a lot of you might be familiar in the
old days when you put graphics up on screen,
circles would also look like ovals, things like that.
It's because of your pixel aspect ratio.
But then there's all these other ones.
There's a 1.2 pixel aspect ratio, which is a wide screen DV.
This is when you take a standard consumer level camera, you
shoot wide screen, and it's still a standard NTSC signal,
but they're playing this pixel trick to make the image
wide screen basically into your standard DV camera.
On the higher end, on the 720p, where
HDV uses a 1.33 pixel aspect ratio.
And this is, again, because of the way they're using it.
Now, when these camera manufacturers
say they're shooting true HD,
there is no one shooting true HD except on the high end.
They're all shooting some smaller resolution,
and they up res it to a 1920 by 1080 resolution.
So, for example, HDV actually shoots at 1440 by 1080.
And DVC Pro HD shoots at 1280 by 1080.
So it's a 1.5 pixel aspect ratio.
Now, cameras like the HV20 actually has-- is one of
the first cameras that has a true 1920 by 1080 sensor,
meaning that the actual acquisition chip is a true HD chip.
But again, because this is getting recorded
into the camera, it's getting crunched down,
it's getting reprocessed, things like that.
One of the first cameras that really
is going to be usable at a less
than quarter million dollar price that's
coming out soon is the red camera.
Many of you might have heard about coming
from the founder of Oakley.
That camera could revolutionize things.
And its resolution is four times the highest HD right now.
It's 4096 by 2048.
You could fit four 1920 by 1080 HD resolution images
in the same area as a red camera's acquisition.
>> Is it square pixel?
>> And it's square pixel.
So it will change the game.
If you haven't heard about red, you're
going to start hearing a lot about it.
They're getting ready to ship those cameras.
And it will probably revolutionize
the video industry single handedly.
Color space.
Yes, color space is interesting.
>> One other thing to talk about on the last slide,
too, is not so much to scare you about this bunch
of different pixel aspect ratios, and your stuff is going
to be stretched or squeezed without you asking for it.
One thing to keep in mind is that you may end up with source
footage that's that way and knowing that you're probably,
unless you're going back out for broadcast,
you're going to be going out as square pixels.
So one thing to keep in mind is that even if you have
one of these strange sort of non square resolutions
that you're working with coming in, you just choose
the appropriate square pixel resolution coming out,
whether that be the 720p or the 1080p, that sort of thing.
So color space.
There's always a need for compression, as we know.
And one of the ways that they've done this with
video signals in the past is to split up the signal
into its luminance, its light and dark
values, and then the colors separately.
So RGB, we're used to the sort of additive color model
where you've got three channels, you add a certain amount
of each and you get your resulting color.
Going back to days of black and white television, that
was just a single luminance channel, light and dark.
The two others that you'll run into, and these acronyms
are just there for demonstration purposes, is to--
when you split the color out, you're able to do something
where you're scaling the color channels
to reduce the bandwidth of the signal.
And the reason that you're able to do this is that we are
more sensitive to changes in light than we are in color.
We're more rods than cones.
So the trick that they used is to split--
there's a way to transform an RGB signal
into the luminance and two color channels.
And the two color channels are differences between the
luminance and the red and the blue, if memory serves.
But in any case, you'll end up with these
different color spaces for your video signals.
So when you're getting to seeing things like, I'm going
to skip one here, we'll get back to that in just a sec,
so you'll see these sorts of designations when you're
talking about the color depth of a given camera.
You'll see 4:4:4, 4:2:2, 4:1:1, 4:2:0.
What those represent is that scaling of those color
channels to reduce the bandwidth for a given video stream.
So 4:4:4, there's some historical
stuff behind why 4 is 100 percent.
But for our purposes, 4 is unscaled.
It's 100 percent resolution.
And the first of those in that triad is your luminance.
And then the second one is your first color channel.
The third one is your second color channel.
So the high end codecs and high
end cameras, like the CiniAltas,
can capture two codecs that have no
degradation of the color channels.
And this is especially important if you're doing
things like color different keying for visual effects.
Since that is relying on the color
information to pull your key,
you can get edge artifacting with these lower color depths.
That's why DV has historically
been hard to key, for example.
So there are custom codecs in some of these high end video
card manufacturers that will capture the 4:4:4:4 color data.
Now you're going to end up needing raids
that can capture at a speed that CiniAlta,
for example, captures at 190 megabytes per second.
So you need some hardware to take care of these.
But know that there are codecs out there, capture
codecs that will preserve all of your color information.
>> And you can capture new a codec.
But if your camera doesn't acquire the video at
that color sub sampling, then it doesn't matter.
So there's only really a couple cameras out there
that are actually going to capture 4::4:4 video.
There's the F950, which is a qPuarter million dollar set-up.
The new red that's coming out.
A couple cameras along those lines are going to do 4:4:4.
Most cameras in the high end are only doing 4:2:2.
And prematurium (phonetic) below that is doing 4:2:0 or 4:1:1.
>> So the 4:2:2 designation means that
the color channels are being scaled,
I believe it's horizontally, so you
are losing some color data there.
Now, perceptually, if you're not doing-- if it's not a green
screen shoot and you're not doing a key or doing some sort
of alpha channel generation off of that,
you will most likely not see the difference.
If it's just out in the field shooting,
there's nothing wrong with 4:2:2.
In fact, the 4:2:0, which is just a sort of funky
designation to say that they scale, instead of just scaling
on one direction, they're scaling on both
directions, X and Y on the color channels.
Even HDV footage, you probably will not notice
a big difference because of the color scaling.
It's just a way of crunching down
the signal to get it to tape.
And then lastly, 4:1:1, just because it's
something that's been used in the past.
If you're using standard definition and
DV footage, you're going to be on 4:1:1.
So the color channels are actually scaled to one
quarter of the resolution of the luminance image.
>> Just really quickly, codecs, your
delivery format, the codec magic.
>> So there are a couple different
ways to think about the codecs.
You want to think about the codecs that are going to be used
when you're capturing the footage
or when it's delivered to you.
Photo jpeg is one that's worth mentioning
because you can use it for offlining.
There's a spec called offline RT, which is
pretty much a photo jpeg compressed video stream
that is at a small resolution.
We use 3D4 by 216, I believe.
And this is what allows us to get a couple hundred
megabyte files that we can throw to our editors,
have them do a remote edit and send us back the Final
Cut profile, and then we reconnect to something,
whether it be the CiniAlta or HDV or something like that.
We connect to the large footage that's way
too big to try and move out to everybody,
and possibly even with the CiniAlta, too big to edit on it.
It just won't play back well.
>> And Final Cut has this built in as an offline format.
It's actually what the basis of their offline format is.
>> Right. And then DV and HDV, which we've covered.
Now, AIC is interesting, and it's Apple Intermediate Codec.
And what that is is it's an all full-frame codec where
it's like a photo jpeg, where each frame is compressed,
but there's no interframe compression
like you'd find with MPEG2, MPEG 4HH264.
And what that allows for is on lower end machines, you
can get better playback than you would if it's trying
to do the HDV stream where it's got to
take the change information and compute
that on the fly when you're scrubbing around.
So it's worth mentioning AIC is another one that's in there.
DVC Pro HD is a higher end acquisition format.
The electronic news gathering camera's shooting this.
And it's something that you can use.
In our project, we use it as the codec
to conform all of the other codecs.
This is before the sort of open timeline
stuff in the new version of Final Cut.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> And then the new and exciting
one, of course, Apple ProRes 422.
And what's interesting about this is it's a low
bandwidth codec that has very high visual quality.
You can use it either as something to
push all of your footage too to use
as an intermediate codec and everything conformed.
And it's also light enough to be edited on a laptop.
So you can get very high visual quality.
The thing about the photo jpeg and the offline
RT, I'm not sure if anyone's seen footage
like this before, but it is very highly degraded.
>> And it looks crunchy.
>> Yeah, very crunchy.
It's hard even to see numbers on the smart slate or
something like that, if you're trying to do sinking.
So the nice thing about the ProRes is for
a very low, relatively low bandwidth rate,
you're getting very high quality
footage that can be edited on a laptop
with a FireWire 800 drive or something like that.
>> Yeah, and we'll jump onto some questions.
Real quick, I won't talk too long on it, is
the output format H.264, which must be our--
we're familiar with QuickTime, MPEG4, MPEG2,
and many of you might not know, or maybe you do,
that the flash video actually uses on to codec.
So it's their own codec or they bought the codec.
It's a nice codec, but we actually don't
prefer it as much as the H.264, personally.
>> H.264, for size versus quality, is still
sort of king of the hill in our opinion.
>> And real quick, I want to mention on
this before we drip to some questions is
that delivery format is different than codec.
Your codec is the way it's encoded.
The container, which actually holds
that codec, is your delivery format.
It's a dot movie, it's a dot MP4,
it's a DVD, it's a .swf file.
So don't confuse your codec with the delivery format.
There's a container format, and then
the encoding within that container.
The worst of these that drives us all crazy
is AVI, because there is no standard for it.
You have no idea what's inside this container.
It is just a pain in the butt.
So we personally hate AVI most of the time.
>> QuickTime is also an architecture, so
it also will play back the other format.
>> Yeah.
>> But adds to the confusion a little bit.
>> So we're going to go ahead and jump past this.
We want to see if you guys have some
questions in the last couple minutes here.